Port MASTG-TEST-0079 (iOS Object Persistence) to v2 format with two tests and demos (#3561)
OWASP/mastg: tests-beta/ios/MASVS-CODE/MASTG-TEST-0x02.md

---
title: Integrity and Authenticity Validation of Local Storage Data
platform: ios
id: MASTG-TEST-0x02
type: [static]
weakness: MASWE-0082
profiles: [L1, L2]

> knowledge: [MASTG-KNOW-0091, MASTG-KNOW-0093]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
knowledge: [MASTG-KNOW-0091]
```

best-practices: [MASTG-BEST-0x02]
---

## Overview

Apps may store sensitive data in local storage, such as files, `UserDefaults`, Core Data, or Realm, and later use it in security-relevant decisions. If that data can be modified by an attacker and the app does not verify its integrity and authenticity before using it, the app may act on tampered input.

Although the app's private sandbox is protected from other apps under normal conditions, stored data can be tampered with on jailbroken devices, through device backups, or by directly modifying the app's data container after obtaining privileged access. For this reason, apps must not blindly trust security-relevant data read from local storage.

This test looks not only for storage read APIs, but also for nearby integrity and authenticity validation logic. Depending on the implementation, this may include APIs and patterns related to HMACs, MAC comparisons, cryptographic initialization, signature verification, checksums, or other mechanisms intended to detect tampering.

> This test applies broadly to local storage, including file system access, `UserDefaults`, Core Data, Realm, and other app-managed storage locations. For background on iOS local storage APIs, see @MASTG-KNOW-0091 and @MASTG-KNOW-0093.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test checks whether the app verifies the integrity and authenticity of data loaded from local storage before using it in security-relevant decisions. It looks for storage read APIs alongside nearby validation logic such as HMACs, signature verification, or other tamper-detection mechanisms. 

For background on iOS local storage APIs, see @MASTG-KNOW-0091 and @MASTG-KNOW-0093.
```

## Steps

1. Reverse engineer the app (@MASTG-TECH-0058).

> 2. Run static analysis (@MASTG-TECH-0076) on the reverse-engineered app to identify APIs that read data from local storage and, where possible, nearby integrity and authenticity validation APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use @MASTG-TECH-0066 to look for APIs that read data from local storage (such as `UserDefaults.object(forKey:)`, `FileManager`, `Data(contentsOf:)`, Core Data fetch requests, or Realm queries) and, where possible, nearby integrity and authenticity validation APIs such as HMAC or cryptographic operations.
```
